you want to make money using Instagram
using social media and you're dying to
know how to do that without coming
across as salesy if you've ever tried to
sell something on Instagram you've
probably noticed something like
this which is incredibly frustrating
especially if you've spent a boatload of
time investing in building your
following and you're doing so because
you want to spread your message and
you'd like to be able to monetize your
time on social media well you're in luck
because today I'm going to break down
for you exactly what it takes to
monetize your Instagram in other words
how to make money using
[Music]
Instagram thanks so much for joining me
today on build your tribe where I'm
going to break this down as quickly as
possible the basics of how the right way
in 2024 to make money using Instagram
all right let's get right to it how to
make money using Instagram or in other
words how are people making money on
Instagram well the very first thing that
you have to do is identify what is your
money maker and notice I use the word
makers plural because a lot of the top
earning uh social media influencers or
people who are using social media and
earning an income from it are using more
than just one thing to monetize their
Instagram so let's talk about what that
could look like first of all there's
your influence meaning if you've got a a
decent sized following which can be as
little as you know a thousand people or
even a hundred people if you've got
influence which means people trust you
people like you they've come to know you
and because of that you are able to
influence them that is something you can
monetize it's probably one of the most
valuable things and one of the most
important things for you to protect is
your reputation your trust people often
will also sell digital products physical
products Affiliates or Partnerships are
other ways that you can monetize your
Instagram as well as network marketing
and Professional Services so whether it
is your consultant or um someone who's
doing coaching those are also considered
Professional Services but there's also
you could be a virtual assistant there's
so many things that you can monetize
basically anything that you can sell
anything that people need anything that
would help people anything that people
want to buy anything that people want is
something that you could use your
Instagram to monetize
but step one is to figure out like what
is it you're trying to monetize that
really matters because if you don't know
what it is you're going to monetize it's
really hard to know your next steps you
have to know what you want to monetize
in order to know how to create content
that's going to attract the person that
wants a thing that you have to sell or
to offer right I think that would make
sense so the second step in figuring out
how to monetize your Instagram is
understanding you've got to to optimize
your account for monetization and it's
funny how many people miss this step I
can't tell you how many times I've had
somebody reach out to me and they will
say you know I I I can't figure out how
to grow my business using Instagram I'll
go and click on their account and
they're private or it really looks more
like a a personal account than it does a
business account so Step One is make
sure that you are either a Creator or a
professional account on Instagram then
make sure that your bio has been
optimized in other words and this is
something that we break down in complete
detail uh for our members in the insta
clubhub so Brock and I my son we have a
huge community of people who are doing
exactly what it is you're trying to do
which is figure out how to make money
using Instagram without feeling salesy
you know to do it in a way that feels
organic and one of the easiest most
important things you need to do is to
optimize your bio that means
when someone glances at your bio it
tells people what it is you post and
it's kind of a representation of what
people can expect if they begin to
follow you in other words that's the
first thing people glance at when they
decide if in fact they want to follow
you you also need to make sure that your
account has been niched so if you're
someone who's offering let's say virtual
assistant services but your account is
all over the place like you talk about
dietary suggestions and you're also
posting pictures of your last vacation
your Niche is not defined and so it's
going to be really hard to monetize your
account next you've got to make sure
that you've got a growth strategy in
place and that growth strategy means
you've got at least 30 days of content
that your content matches your Niche
that your Niche matches the promise of
your bio and that your account is both a
professional and or so not both is
either a professional and or Creator
account and then you've got to post
consistently and that content that
you're posting consistently is part of
the way you show up because no matter
how many people are following you
there's only a small percentage that are
going to see the majority or even one of
your posts so you've got to do it
consistently to to Really maximize the
potential of reaching as many people as
are following you that consistency also
tells people that they can count on you
that you're good for it that's how we
want to show up and build that trust
with the people who have decided to
follow us step three is you've got to
create
conversations everybody wants to know
how to sell using Instagram and the
truth of the matter is nobody is going
to fall for being sold to I think of
selling to somebody and I know some
people I I love the fact that people buy
from me but I don't want to sell anybody
I want to have a conversation I want to
explain things because because I don't
want to be sold I don't want to feel
like someone's talked me into something
that I don't need can't afford or it's
just not right for me and the only way
that someone who has something to offer
would know that is if they've given me
enough information that's specific to me
and that happens with
conversations conversations are the key
to monetizing
Instagram now the way I want you to
think about conversations is to think
about the word care so we're going to do
this by creating curios it answering
questions relating to people and
educating them you know and you when I
say educate that could also mean
entertaining it's it's like giving them
the information that they need to make
an informed decision and that's how we
build trust we don't ever want to like
talk someone into something that they're
not sure if it's the right thing for
them so think of that when I talk about
conversations think about the word care
okay so what do I mean by conversations
I mean building trust through
conversations that can happen when
people are able to ask you questions
specifically in the DMS and I'm certain
you're probably thinking to yourself how
in the heck will I ever have the time to
answer people's individual questions
well we're going to share with you some
some great tips on how to do this very
quickly some great conversation hacks
that I want you to keep in mind is
number one the first line of your
caption the first line of your caption
should always be a call to action so we
don't read anymore when you're writing
your captions out for Instagram keep
that in mind first of all captions are
truncated which means if you look at at
somebody's post you're not seeing that
long caption that we used to see anyways
you're seeing like not even the full
first sentence so for that reason your
very first sentence needs to tell people
what to comment or leads to needs to ask
a question so that the first thing which
may be the only thing that they read
encourages a conversation does that make
sense the second thing that you want to
think about is your call to action CTA
in other words your ctaa is your again
in your first line of your caption it
should also be written in most of your
Reals in the text or the font that shows
up on the screen another way to get
conversation started is by using polls
and stickers in your stories these
create engagement they create a back and
forth it feels like communication so
when I'm asking you question like um do
you feel like you're short on time and
there's so many like administrative
things that you you know you need to get
to but you just don't have the time and
you wish you had you could clone
yourself yes or no okay now we're having
a dialogue now I'm not just talking at
you you're actually sharing feedback
with me using sticker polls where I can
say list for me the one thing you never
feel like you have enough time to get to
it whether it's you know just give me
maybe give them some examples you can
say is it creating captions for your
Instagram is it returning your emails is
it going through your you know whatever
it is like giving them some prompts and
then putting up a sticker on your
Instagram stories so that they can
actually tell you in their words what
their struggle is let's say for example
I am a a health coach and I want to hear
from my audience what is it they're
struggling with maybe the words that I
use are not the words that they use so
by putting up a sticker on my stories
not only am I having a dialogue with my
followers but I'm also understanding the
language that they're using and what
their problems are and what their
struggles are and when we have
conversations think about it that's when
we start to trust people right anytime
somebody answers a question for you you
immediately feel like a little bit of a
connection with them and statistically
we know that people when they have
conversations with anyone on Instagram
the the percentage of sales is so much
higher versus someone who's just being
sent a link or being sold to we want to
have conversations now these
conversations can if you're thinking to
yourself like oh my gosh if I get a ton
of followers when will I have the time I
want to spend less time on
Instagram my friends enter DM d m
automation DM automation is such a game
changer oh my it's going to blow your
mind it is going to blow your mind how
much time it's going to save how much
more effective you're going to be how
much more clear you're going to be able
to respond to people how much more
thorough you're going to be and and
you're going to be able to spend so much
less time on Instagram I want you to be
able to monetize Instagram without
having to spend a ton of time there so
I'm going to give you more specific
examples of how to use direct message
automated
to monetize to massively increase the
amount of money that you're making on
Instagram okay so let's get excited
about that okay let's talk DM automation
by the way if you are an insta clubhub
member because I know some of you are
watching right now we have a complete
training that will show you how to set
this up the program that we use is
called many chat it is API approved for
Instagram now a lot of these third-party
plugins you don't want to use on in
because they could get you banned I have
no affiliation with them it has just
saved and changed my life like it has
completely revolutionized my business
and my time by using many chat and again
it is approved by Instagram so you can
use it so easily by asking your
followers to comment a word they can
comment a word either with in response
to one of your stories or under a post
on let's say your latest reel or
something you've made to your feed and
when they comment that word it
automatically sends people a very
specific response and what I love about
this is it allows you to know who you
can follow up with when I just am
posting say for example uh click on this
link if you want more information about
my weight loss services or click on this
link sticker if you want the rates that
I offer for virtual assistant work like
fill in the blank for whatever it is you
are trying to monetize when you put up a
link sticker you have no idea who
clicked on it you're not having a
conversation but when someone sends a
word to you now you have a thread now
you have a way in which to follow up
with people who were interested and
you're having dialogue or communication
if you will okay so DM automation is
something you can use again many chat it
it's pretty simple to set up I like to
use a flow if you want to use see an
example of it just go to my Instagram
which is shelene Johnson and send me the
word fou loss and you'll see and even if
you're not interested you'll see what
that flow looks like but again if that's
something you're like I don't know how
to set that up I don't understand
anything that you're talking about for
those of you are interested in learning
specifically how to do this there is a
training for you inside the insta
clubhub so for those of you who are
members check that out for those of you
who are not members why aren't you a
member it's like the best place for
anyone who's trying to really monetize
Instagram all right so the next thing
that you want to know is after after you
set up DM
automation you then need to figure out
like what's working and what's not
working you can't just post
content write a caption ask people to
respond and then go well it's not
working so I guess I'm the problem you
have to know that Instagram and and I
know this is like bad news for some
people but it really shouldn't be if you
are truly dedicated to Growing your
business and and and you want to use
social media to do that especially free
social media like we're not even talking
about running ads this is how you can
grow your Instagram without having to
run ads now I love running ads too but
for most people they're like I'm just
not I can't even afford to do that yet
well if you are trying to do this
organically then you just have to commit
to knowing that Instagram changes all
the time and what works this month might
not work next month and that's why you
don't have to be the expert at Instagram
and I highly encourage you to if you're
serious about this to make an investment
in somebody who can help you understand
what is working and what isn't working
because it's often changing and today
that's what I'm doing I'm sharing with
you the same things that we teach our
insta Club of members like what is
working today and what's working today
I'm going to share with you specific
examples of and I think you're going to
like this stuff let me pull my slides
back up for you okay but that's really
important you just I want you to make a
mental commitment to the fact that you
have to regularly be looking and saying
like Okay is this working and if it's
not what minor tweaks don't throw in the
towel what minor tweaks do you need to
make in order to start making money on
Instagram okay so I'm going to share
with you the what we call the I insta
clubhub feed post sales formula now you
can take a screenshot of this if you
want but don't worry I'm going to walk
you through each and every one of these
steps and give you specific examples so
the first thing you want to start with
is a hook and a hook the best way to say
a hook it's like the first thing that
you hear or the first thing you see and
it needs to grab people now before and
afters I'm going to share with you this
example is a great way to grab people's
attention like so for this specific
example I'm sharing with you the hook
here was just an image there's no words
on the image that I post is just a
before and after the second thing that
your for formula needs is it needs to
your post needs to entertain or educate
or inspire people now in this particular
example that I'm giving with you that's
not happening in the picture that has to
happen in the caption so in my caption
I'm I'm educating people I'm telling
them what's possible hopefully I'm
inspiring them and hopefully I am
educating them as well I'm also
outlining the problem the problem in
this particular example is women who've
had hormonal weight gain they're they
feel like they're doing everything right
but the weight is not coming off so I'm
I'm relating to the problem I'm also
addressing the desire the desire is can
you solve this problem for me I am I'm
doing I'm doing the workouts I feel like
I'm eating right but the weight is not
freaking coming off what is going on so
that's addressing the problem and
perhaps the desired outcome then also in
my caption is the possible solution I'm
going to tell them what they can do to
solve this problem and then lastly this
is really important is the call to
action the call to action in this
particular caption remember it's the
first sentence right because why because
people don't read oftentimes beyond the
first sentence so my first sentence
needs to be the call to action I'm
telling them what to comment the comment
that they I asked them to leave was the
word fat loss when they send me when
they comment fat loss under my post
they're going to get an automated direct
message that says great I love it thanks
for asking here is the specific
information that you requested and
that's where we can make the sale or at
least get them to take action in this
particular instance I'm not selling them
something I'm encouraging them to take
action by commenting the word fat loss
that's going to send them to a video on
YouTube that video on YouTube eventually
is going to get them interested in a
program that I offer and that's the sale
so the sale is not always immediately
like comment this word boom I get a sale
sometimes it follows a sales what we
call sales funnel so I'm taking them
through a journey I'm building that
trust but you can also say commment the
word fat loss and I could have sent them
directly a direct message with the
information on how to become
automatically a member they could they
could have signed up right there so it's
really up to you what you want that
sales funnel to look like you can take
people directly to a sale or you can
keep them on the journey which I like to
call the the Journey where I'm I'm
giving them more information so they can
make an informed decision so in this
particular example what I did was just
posted a video from a recent vacation
the the hook is first of all the image
but it's also what I've written on the
screen which is comment doctor actually
that's not the hook the hook is you'll
see it in just a second let me play it
for you and you'll see the hook
[Music]
the hook is my doctor didn't have a clue
about women's hormones right and so you
know you're you're seeing that and then
you're seeing you know a woman who's
older that would be me and in a bikini
which is you know kind of unusual and
then here's the solution so what I'm
saying to them this is the call to
action is comment doctor and I'll share
a list of questions that help me find
the right doctor so I'm I'm addressing
the problem I'm hopefully grabbing them
with the image and and the sound the
hook is also the words that are on the
screen and then the very very important
call to action I'm telling them what to
comment that's meaning that they're
going to engage with this post and that
makes a huge difference when people are
engaging with your post this means that
not only is it it's going to boost your
like your your content's going to get
pushed out the more people who comment
and we're going to get a lot more
comments when we tell people what to
comment and more specifically we can
monetized by getting people to comment
then I'm sending them a direct message
which again I can send them a link to a
video I can send them a link to a sales
page I can send them a link to something
that it is something that I offer okay
so let's go and see if we can't show you
another example okay check this out so I
don't know if you can tell but on this
particular reel I had over 6,000 people
like it but look at the number of people
who left a comment I think this is
remarkable over
6400 people commented doctor
6400 more people asked or commented than
they liked and and I think this is
really important because I want you to
know the vanity metrics are not nearly
as important as the engagement and the
engagement is the conversations
conversations create conversions
and the way to have conversations is by
creating
curiosity it's that care right it's
creating curiosity it's answering
questions it's engaging with them it's
all of the things that get people to say
like oh this is great you got my
attention I'm curious I have questions
you're going to respond you're going to
educate me and then I get to make an
informed decision and that's how we
monetize our social okay so let me see
if I can't share with you a few more
examples
[Music]
this is one of our students in the insta
clubhub juicing recipes this is just a
very simple re she didn't even have to
talk directly to camera she's using
words on the screen this one highlight
that shows still is on her page earned
her over
$30,000 isn't it amazing again she
follows our recipe exactly as we the
formula as we lay it out it's her recipe
we we teach this formula inside the
insta clubhub and I think this is a
great example I think probably the more
examples you see aside from just like my
page or somebody else's hopefully this
is helpful here's another
[Music]
one what I love about this specific
example is she she's not even in the
post this is what we call b-roll content
and people are reading it she had over
200 people requesting that information
again it's by following the insta
clubhub
[Music]
formula this is another one of our
students this is the mobility Duo they
teach people how to say injury-free who
are snowboarders they have grown their
account I can't even remember how many
people now they their account is huge go
check them out give them a follow you
guys Mobility Duo just to see how
they're following this insta clubhub
formula over a hundred comments they
built a six figure very specific very
niched business helping snowboarders
stay mobile and flexible even in the off
season so again he's this could just be
b-roll content I love seeing examples
with b-roll content now if you've
enjoyed this but you also want to know
how to
make sales not just on your Instagram
feed but on your stories because frankly
a lot of people just watch stories it's
in our stories where our followers are
getting to know us and really begin to
trust us so I'm a big fan of spending
the majority of my time I I would say
that probably
80% of the sales that I've made and I've
made millions of dollars using Instagram
have happened from my stories I like
stories they they take less time they're
more organic they're fun to create and
there's a specific template that I like
to teach when it comes to selling on
Instagram stories we share all of those
templates they are plug and play with
our insta clubhub members so if you are
an insta Club Hub member please check
those out there they're waiting for you
you know you get your customized
calendar when you become an insta Club
up member all of these things make life
so much easier it takes out the
guesswork you don't have to figure this
stuff out you you're an expert at your
business you don't need to be an expert
at Instagram when you're an insta
clubhub member if you're not one already
I encourage you to go to insta
clubhub.com and take advantage of that
opportunity right now in the meantime I
want to say to you keep these things in
mind and if you've enjoyed this video
please make sure that you like and make
sure you subscribe make sure you hit
that the thumbs up button and make sure
you subscribe to build your tribe but
here's what if if you take away nothing
else I want you to remember this it's
about creating conversations nobody want
today this the the way that people used
to sell like five years ago even three
years ago on Instagram it doesn't work
anymore it turns people off it's going
to get you crickets it's going to get
you unfollowed and you're going to think
like wait a second what what happened
how come I'm just not getting any more
engagement it's because you're probably
using outdated tactics people want to
connect they want a conversation they
want real they don't want highly produce
stuff they don't want special Graphics
it doesn't like the more real it is the
better your content is going to perform
and the more conversions you're going to
get and those conversions happen with
conversations if you don't have time to
have those one-on-one conversations you
got to automate and again I recommend
many chat for that
automation can you do it yourself of
course but once you get a certain amount
of followers you know why not invest in
a program that can speed up the process
for you unless of course you have a team
that can do this for you in the meantime
I just want you to know that it it does
take time you you got to stay dedicated
to know what is working what isn't
working but don't give up it is so worth
it it's so rewarding but it does take
persistence and patience hey as always
it is my goal to be brief to be bright
to make it fun and then be done ladies
and gentlemen we are done thanks for
being here I'll see you next time
[Music]